cmd/clusterctl/README.md, before:

# clusterctl

`clusterctl` is the SIG-cluster-lifecycle sponsored tool that implements the Cluster API.

Read the [experience doc here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-sYb3EdkRga49nULH1kSwuQFf1o6GvAw_POrsNo5d8c/edit#). To gain viewing permissions, please join either the [kubernetes-dev](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-dev) or [kubernetes-sig-cluster-lifecycle](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-cluster-lifecycle) google group.

## Getting Started

**Due to the [limitations](#limitations) described below, you must currently compile and run a `clusterctl` binary
from your chosen [provider implementation](../../README.md#provider-implementations) rather than using the binary from
this repository.**


### Prerequisites

1. Install [kind](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind#installation-and-usage) or [minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/). [kind](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind#installation-and-usage) is preferred.
2. If you are using kind, go to step 3; If you are using minikube, install a [driver](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/blob/master/docs/drivers.md) for minikube. For Linux, we recommend kvm2. For MacOS, we recommend VirtualBox.
2. Build the `clusterctl` tool

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api $GOPATH/src/sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api
$ cd $GOPATH/src/sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api/cmd/clusterctl/
$ go build
```

### Limitations

`clusterctl` can only use a provider that is compiled in. As provider specific code has been moved out
of this repository, running the `clusterctl` binary compiled from this repository isn't particularly useful.

There is current work ongoing to rectify this issue, which centers around removing the
[`ProviderDeployer interface`](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/blob/b90c541b315ecbac096fa371b4436d60ce5715a9/clusterctl/clusterdeployer/clusterdeployer.go#L33-L40)
from the `clusterdeployer` package. The two tracking issues for removing the two functions in the interface are
https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/issues/158 and https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/issues/160.

### Creating a cluster

1. Create the `cluster.yaml`, `machines.yaml`, `provider-components.yaml`, and `addons.yaml` files configured for your cluster.
   See the provider specific templates and generation tools for your chosen [provider implementation](../../README.md#provider-implementations).

1. Create a cluster:

   ```shell
   ./clusterctl create cluster --provider <provider> --bootstrap-type <bootstrap-type> -c cluster.yaml -m machines.yaml -p provider-components.yaml -a addons.yaml
   ```

Currently two `bootstrap-type` options are supported - `kind` and `minikube`.

If you are using minikube, to choose a specific minikube driver, please use the `--bootstrap-flags vm-driver=xxx` command line parameter. For example to use the kvm2 driver with clusterctl you woud add `--bootstrap-flags vm-driver=kvm2`.

Additional advanced flags can be found via help.

```shell
./clusterctl create cluster --help
```

### Interacting with your cluster

If you are using kind, set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable first before using kubectl:

```
export KUBECONFIG="$(kind get kubeconfig-path --name="clusterapi")"
```

Once you have created a cluster, you can interact with the cluster and machine
resources using kubectl:

```
$ kubectl --kubeconfig kubeconfig get clusters
$ kubectl --kubeconfig kubeconfig get machines
$ kubectl --kubeconfig kubeconfig get machines -o yaml
```

#### Scaling your cluster

You can scale your cluster by adding additional individual Machines, or by adding a MachineSet or MachineDeployment
and changing the number of replicas.

#### Upgrading your cluster

**NOT YET SUPPORTED!**

#### Node repair

**NOT YET SUPPORTED!**

### Deleting a cluster

When you are ready to remove your cluster, you can use clusterctl to delete the cluster:

```shell
./clusterctl delete cluster --kubeconfig kubeconfig
```

Please also check the documentation for your [provider implementation](../../README.md#provider-implementations)
to determine if any additional steps need to be taken to completely clean up your cluster.

## Contributing

If you are interested in adding to this project, see the [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information on how you can get involved.

Commit message:

Adding steps for how to use existing cluster as bootstrap cluster. (#877)

cmd/clusterctl/README.md, after:

# clusterctl

`clusterctl` is the SIG-cluster-lifecycle sponsored tool that implements the Cluster API.

Read the [experience doc here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-sYb3EdkRga49nULH1kSwuQFf1o6GvAw_POrsNo5d8c/edit#). To gain viewing permissions, please join either the [kubernetes-dev](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-dev) or [kubernetes-sig-cluster-lifecycle](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-sig-cluster-lifecycle) google group.

## Getting Started

**Due to the [limitations](#limitations) described below, you must currently compile and run a `clusterctl` binary
from your chosen [provider implementation](../../README.md#provider-implementations) rather than using the binary from
this repository.**


### Prerequisites

1. Cluster API runs its operations in Kubernetes. A pre-existing or temporary bootstrap cluster is required. Currently, we support multiple methods to bootstrap Cluster API: `kind` (preferred), `minikube` or any pre-existing cluster.
   - If you want to use container, install [kind](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind#installation-and-usage). This is preferred.
   - If you want to use VM, install [minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/), version 0.30.0 or greater.
   - If you want to use existing Kubernetes cluster, prepare your kubeconfig.
2. If you are using `kind` or existing Kubernetes cluster, go to step 3. If you are using `minikube`, install a [driver](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/blob/master/docs/drivers.md). For Linux, we recommend `kvm2`. For MacOS, we recommend VirtualBox.
2. Build the `clusterctl` tool

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api $GOPATH/src/sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api
$ cd $GOPATH/src/sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api/cmd/clusterctl/
$ go build
```

### Limitations

`clusterctl` can only use a provider that is compiled in. As provider specific code has been moved out
of this repository, running the `clusterctl` binary compiled from this repository isn't particularly useful.

There is current work ongoing to rectify this issue, which centers around removing the
[`ProviderDeployer interface`](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/blob/b90c541b315ecbac096fa371b4436d60ce5715a9/clusterctl/clusterdeployer/clusterdeployer.go#L33-L40)
from the `clusterdeployer` package. The two tracking issues for removing the two functions in the interface are
https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/issues/158 and https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/issues/160.

### Creating a cluster

1. Create the `cluster.yaml`, `machines.yaml`, `provider-components.yaml`, and `addons.yaml` files configured for your cluster.
   See the provider specific templates and generation tools for your chosen [provider implementation](../../README.md#provider-implementations).

1. Create a cluster:

   - __Bootstrap Cluster__: Use `bootstrap-type`, currently only `kind` and `minikube` are supported.

   ```shell
   ./clusterctl create cluster --provider <provider> --bootstrap-type <bootstrap-type> -c cluster.yaml \
     -m machines.yaml -p provider-components.yaml -a addons.yaml
   ```

   If you are using minikube, to choose a specific minikube driver, please use the `--bootstrap-flags vm-driver=xxx` command line parameter. For example to use the kvm2 driver with clusterctl you woud add `--bootstrap-flags vm-driver=kvm2`.

   -  __Existing Cluster__:  Use `bootstrap-cluster-kubeconfig`. This flag is used when you have an existing Kubernetes cluster.

   ```shell
   ./clusterctl create cluster --provider <provider> --bootstrap-cluster-kubeconfig <kubeconfig> \
     -c cluster.yaml -m machines.yaml -p provider-components.yaml -a addons.yaml
   ```

Additional advanced flags can be found via help.

```shell
./clusterctl create cluster --help
```

### Interacting with your cluster

If you are using kind, set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable first before using kubectl:

```
export KUBECONFIG="$(kind get kubeconfig-path --name="clusterapi")"
```

Once you have created a cluster, you can interact with the cluster and machine
resources using kubectl:

```
$ kubectl --kubeconfig kubeconfig get clusters
$ kubectl --kubeconfig kubeconfig get machines
$ kubectl --kubeconfig kubeconfig get machines -o yaml
```

#### Scaling your cluster

You can scale your cluster by adding additional individual Machines, or by adding a MachineSet or MachineDeployment
and changing the number of replicas.

#### Upgrading your cluster

**NOT YET SUPPORTED!**

#### Node repair

**NOT YET SUPPORTED!**

### Deleting a cluster

When you are ready to remove your cluster, you can use clusterctl to delete the cluster:

```shell
./clusterctl delete cluster --kubeconfig kubeconfig
```

Please also check the documentation for your [provider implementation](../../README.md#provider-implementations)
to determine if any additional steps need to be taken to completely clean up your cluster.

## Contributing

If you are interested in adding to this project, see the [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information on how you can get involved.
